hello everyone and welcome to this
week's scripting quick tip tutorial
in this video i'm going to show you how
to use automation to generate
scripts for whatever program you wish in
this case we're going to be making a
simple automated after effects script
which will generate some compositions
for us however many we choose
and i'm basically going to be showing
you how and i'm basically going to be
illustrating how you can take
simple strings and commands and chain
them using loops
and basically be able to create any
script you want to easily automate
things
this could be useful for batch creation
of random elements
exporting things creating random effects
and a whole bunch of other things
before we get started i do want to
remind you down below hit subscribe and
the bell icon
to be notified of new videos coming out
twice a week on the channel
and down in the description you can
check out this code in github try it out
for yourself
make a fork of it and modify it however
you want and also don't forget to follow
us there on github for coding updates
i always upload code way before on
github than the videos themselves
also you can follow us in the
description as well on instagram for
other live updates
if you're not already a member of our
discord server come join and join the
scripting extensions plugins expressions
tutorial ideas and many other channels
we have going
and if you'd like to help support the
youtube channel you can become a member
supporter premium supporter or vip and
get cool perks as well as member status
inside of our discord shout out to our
all of our members
so this script we're going to be making
today is going to generate a script
itself
and this script itself is going to as
you can see once we open it up
contains some very simple commands as
you can see we simply loop through some
stuff
creating the composition a layer within
that composition and then opening that
composition
in the viewer basically a starting point
to get you to automate creation of
scripts
and writing code inside of code which is
pretty meta
so i'm going to create a new script file
and show you how you can do this
yourself
we're going to start by creating a
variable called script or we can even
call a script file to be more
descriptive
this is going to be a file we generate
on our computer
we can basically generate any file type
we want we can generate a text file
we can generate a jsx file or you can
use some kind of custom file extension
for create your creation of a file
but in our case we're going to keep it
simple and create a file object
and we're going to use a jsx file
because we want to run it just like a
normal script
in this case inside of after effects
this applies for any other program you
can run scripts in
just keep that in mind so i'm going to
add the path
which i want to save this to i'm just
going to send it to my desktop
and call it myscript.jsx and as you can
see
on my desktop i already have that so
i'll just delete it from the previous
example
so by default now this script does not
exist we just need to make reference to
it
and fill it up with information if we
ever want to actually
create or generate it so because in this
simple example we're going to be
generating a bunch of compositions
i'm going to create a variable for the
number of compositions i want to create
in this case i'll just say 5 to keep it
simple
and then we need to have sort of a
global string we're going to contain
all of the code of our document in if
you look at the script i have right now
we have five lines of code and this can
be basically converted into
a string of type variable which we can
then use
to put into the file and act just like
script code
so i'm going to say string or you can be
more descriptive and say
code string is equal to an empty string
and now we want to loop through the
number of compositions we want to make
we have this set to 5 and we're just
going to say if our i is equal to one
for i is less than or equal to our num
comps
increment i by one now this is going to
go through
however many num comps we give it and we
want to create these compositions
now normally to create a composition in
after effects you would need to say
app.project.items.adcomp
and then you want to put in all the
information like the name
the size the pixel aspect ratio the
duration and the frame rates
and this will basically generate a
composition for you as you can see in
this case i generated
five compositions with the name name but
we want to actually use this
not just run the command we want to
store the command as
text in a file and to make things a
little bit more controllable
we can say comp is equal to that so it
returns a comp object
and let's call it comp
plus i also make sure that's a string
and what we can actually do is really
just test this with regular code before
we convert it to a string
so if i test this now you can see i'm
going to get comp 1 comp 2
comp 3 etc so let's finish off what code
we want to add
i want to add a layer to each one of
these comps so i'll say var
layer is equal to comp dot
layers dot add solid and we're just
gonna add a simple solid
we'll make it white
call it solid and i'll give it the
dimensions
pixel aspect ratio and duration we can
just say
comp.duration and i'm not actually sure
that code is right let's try it out
actually before we do let's say
comp.open
in viewer this will allow us to open it
up successfully hopefully
and yes we have successfully opened up
our five compositions
solids created proper duration and size
now we can basically convert all of this
actual code
into strings so what i'm going to do is
encapsulate everything in single quotes
and take this line and encapsulate in
single quotes
take this line single quotes this line
and now we want to write this to our
script file
however many times and what i'm also
going to do
is uh add in a new line
so that way we have our first comp chunk
of code
newline second comp chunk of code etc
now the way we're now going to do this
is to grab our code string
and say plus equals this code and we
also need to end this in a semicolon
and we're going to do the same thing
with each of these lines here
code string plus equals code string plus
equals you could theoretically put this
all in one line of code but it would be
a little bit
less organized that way so now if we
were to run this script
nothing should happen correct nothing
happened
let's go ahead and alert at the end our
code string
it's going to give us something empty
here
and it's because i spelt code string
wrong it needs to be code string
now you can see we have a bit bunched up
looking data
let's go ahead and see what happens when
we write it to our script.jsx file
so to do that we're going to grab our
script file and open it up
we're going to open it with the right
property in mind because we want to
write some data to it so i'll say script
file dot write
what's all the data we're going to write
to it simply our code stream
then we need to also close the file so
that we can have access to in other
programs and
delete it if needed so now let's go
ahead and run it
and we should now have a script file on
our desktop if we open it up
you can now see we have some text
but it's not very nicely formatted
everything is one line after the other
but if i was to run this it's going to
run the processes correctly
there are a couple of issues here we
have all comp sixes which is not correct
and these all need a new line as well
so i'm going to add this
after each line of code i'm going to add
actually i don't need to add it like
with a plus i can just add it right
there
and we'll add a line break so that it's
a bit more organized after each line of
code
and if we want to actually use our
variable i from this code creation
we need to break out
and then add it
like that so now even though we already
have a script file created if we
go ahead and run the script again it's
going to overwrite everything because
we're simply writing to the whole file
we're not writing anything or appending
now if i run this
we can go ahead and navigate to our
script and open it up again
now you can see it's looking a lot more
organized in this case
we're getting a strange result right
here
but it might still work to run this
yep now we're still going to get comp 1
comp 2 com 3 comp 4 and com
5. i basically it looks a little bit
misorganized to have it like this
but this will work as well because
javascript you can add strings and
integers
and it sort of figures it out in this
case there's one more step you could go
the extra mile to do if you don't want
to just create
a script file or in some other file you
can also run the file immediately
afterwards to see how it's working
so i can say global eval
file and then we're going to evaluate
our script
file this will basically run it like a
normal script
and as you can see we have run it
successfully so this will allow you to
easily like make
changes we can delete this make some
changes whatever we want it to be maybe
we want
black solids instead and we run this and
now we're going to get the updated
script
generated and running immediately with
our updated code
but that's going to do it for this video
guys i hope you enjoyed if you did hit
the thumbs up button
down below hit subscribe and the bell
icon to be notified of new videos coming
out twice weekly on the channel
and down in the description you can
check out the code for this in the
github link
follow us there as i post code way
before any of the videos come out
and in the description follow us on
instagram for other updates
you can also join our discord server and
get help with scripting extensions
plugins expressions and much more
and you can become a channel member link
in the description and you can get cool
perks as well as help support us
thanks again for watching we'll see you
guys next time
[Music]
you